# What is Docker?

Docker is a containerization platform that packages your application and all of its dependencies together in the form of a **docker container** to ensure that your application works seamlessly in any environment.

In other words, you can think of Docker as being a way to run your application anywhere, whatever the environment, whatever the OS.

### What is a Docker container?

A Docker container is an instance of a Docker image (think of this like a snapshot).

A Docker image is a single file with a Dockerfile, dependencies and your code that an application needs to run.

A Docker container is a program with its own isolated set of hardware resource (such as memory and hard drive space).

The difference betwen a container and a VM is that a container shares the OS in which it is running from, whereas on a VM you can specify the OS it uses. Basically a Docker container is a lightweight version of a VM.

### What is a Dockerfile?

A Dockerfile is a file containing the instructions for telling Docker what to do and how it should build your Docker image.

### Docker's Ecosystem.

* Docker Clieant - Primary UI for interacting with Docker. Each time you use the Docker CLI you refer to the Docker Client.

* Docker Daemon - Docker server listening for API requests. This manages images, containers, volumes and networks.

* Docker Volume - Stores the persistent data you applications create and use.

* Docker Compose - Tool used to assist with an application that requires multiple Docker containers to run (via a .yml file).